---
title: IBC-Go v8 to v9
sidebar_label: IBC-Go v8 to v9
sidebar_position: 13
slug: /migrations/v8-to-v9
---

# Migrating from v8 to v9

This guide provides instructions for migrating to a new version of ibc-go.

There are four sections based on the four potential user groups of this document:

- [Chains](#chains)
- [IBC Apps](#ibc-apps)
- [Relayers](#relayers)
- [IBC Light Clients](#ibc-light-clients)

**Note:** ibc-go supports golang semantic versioning and therefore all imports must be updated on major version releases.

## Chains

Chains will need to remove the route for the legacy proposal handler for `02-client` from their `app/app.go`:

```diff
// app.go
govRouter.AddRoute(govtypes.RouterKey, govv1beta1.ProposalHandler).
-       AddRoute(paramproposal.RouterKey, params.NewParamChangeProposalHandler(app.ParamsKeeper)).
-       AddRoute(ibcclienttypes.RouterKey, ibcclient.NewClientProposalHandler(app.IBCKeeper.ClientKeeper))
+       AddRoute(paramproposal.RouterKey, params.NewParamChangeProposalHandler(app.ParamsKeeper))
```

## IBC Apps

### ICS20 - Transfer

- With support for multidenom transfer packets, the `NewMsgTransfer` constructor function to create a new `MsgTransfer` instance now accepts multiple coins instead of just one:

```diff
func NewMsgTransfer(
  sourcePort, sourceChannel string,
- token sdk.Coin, 
+ tokens sdk.Coins,
  sender, receiver string,
  timeoutHeight clienttypes.Height, timeoutTimestamp uint64,
  memo string,
)
```

- The `ibc_transfer` and `fungible_token_packet` events do not include the attributes `denom` and `amount` anymore; instead they include the attribute `tokens` with the list of coins transferred in the packet. 
- The helper function [`GetTransferCoin`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v8.0.0/modules/apps/transfer/types/coin.go#L46) has been removed.
- The helper function [`GetDenomPrefix`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v8.0.0/modules/apps/transfer/types/coin.go#L35) has been removed.
- The helper function [`GetPrefixedDenom`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v8.0.0/modules/apps/transfer/types/coin.go#L40) has been removed. Please construct the denom using the new [`Denom` type](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/7068760f7277cab75b760a0d6ca95ccbfe2f78ae/modules/apps/transfer/types/token.pb.go#L82).

### `DenomTrace` type

- The [`DenomTrace`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v8.0.0/modules/apps/transfer/types/transfer.pb.go#L25-L33) type has been made private and will be completely removed in a later release. 
- The [`DenomTrace` and `DenomTraces` gRPCs](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v8.0.0/modules/apps/transfer/keeper/grpc_query.go#L22-L75) have therefore been removed as well. Please use the [`Denom` type](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/14fedae884e541779eefd01fc4aab5fe194856bc/modules/apps/transfer/types/token.pb.go#L81-L87) instead, and the [`Denom` and `Denoms` gRPCs](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/14fedae884e541779eefd01fc4aab5fe194856bc/modules/apps/transfer/keeper/grpc_query.go#L27-L80).
- An [automatic migration handler](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/14fedae884e541779eefd01fc4aab5fe194856bc/modules/apps/transfer/keeper/migrations.go#L75-L113) is also configured to migrate the storage from using `DenomTrace` to `Denom`.
- The [`denomination_trace` event emitted in the `OnRecvPacket` callback](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v8.0.0/modules/apps/transfer/keeper/relay.go#L268-L274) has been replaced with the [`denom` event](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/18121380dec5cff5ec803f1088fd409e069c2c9e/modules/apps/transfer/keeper/relay.go#L247).
- The functions [`SenderChainIsSource` and `ReceiverChainIsSource`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v8.0.0/modules/apps/transfer/types/coin.go#L12-L32) have been replaced with the function `HasPrefix` of the newly added `Denom` type.

### ICS27 - Interchain Accounts

In [#5785](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/5785) the list of arguments of the `NewKeeper` constructor function of the host submodule was extended with an extra argument for the gRPC query router that the submodule uses when executing a [`MsgModuleQuerySafe`](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/eecfa5c09a4c38a5c9f2cc2a322d2286f45911da/proto/ibc/applications/interchain_accounts/host/v1/tx.proto#L41-L51) to perform queries that are module safe:

```diff
func NewKeeper(
  cdc codec.Codec, key storetypes.StoreKey, legacySubspace icatypes.ParamSubspace,
  ics4Wrapper porttypes.ICS4Wrapper, channelKeeper icatypes.ChannelKeeper,
  portKeeper icatypes.PortKeeper,	accountKeeper icatypes.AccountKeeper, 
  scopedKeeper exported.ScopedKeeper, msgRouter icatypes.MessageRouter,
+ queryRouter icatypes.QueryRouter, 
  authority string,
) Keeper
```

The legacy function `RegisterInterchainAccount` now takes an extra parameter to specify the ordering of new ICA channels:

```diff
func (k Keeper) RegisterInterchainAccount(
  ctx sdk.Context,
  connectionID, owner,
  version string,
+ ordering channeltypes.Order
) error {
```

The `requests` repeated field of `MsgModuleQuerySafe` has been marked non-nullable, and therefore the signature of the constructor function `NewMsgModuleQuerySafe` has been updated:

```diff
func NewMsgModuleQuerySafe(
  signer string, 
- requests []*QueryRequest,
+ requests []QueryRequest,
) *MsgModuleQuerySafe {
```

The signature of the [`NewIBCMiddleware` constructor function](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/v8.0.0/modules/apps/27-interchain-accounts/controller/ibc_middleware.go#L35) in the controller submodule now only takes the controller keeper as an argument:

```diff
func NewIBCMiddleware(
- app porttypes.IBCModule, 
  k keeper.Keeper,
) IBCMiddleware {
```

The base application is then set by default to nil and thus authentication is assumed to be done by a Cosmos SDK module, such as the `x/gov`, `x/group` or `x/auth`, that sends messages to the controller submodule's message server. An authentication module can be set using the newly added [`NewIBCMiddlewareWithAuth` constructor function](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/82b5fb668b6f1c918023fb7be72a8606d2329d81/modules/apps/27-interchain-accounts/controller/ibc_middleware.go#L46).

### IBC core

### API removals

- The `exported.ChannelI` and `exported.CounterpartyChannelI` interfaces have been removed. Please use the concrete types.
- The `exported.ConnectionI` and `exported.CounterpartyConnectionI` interfaces have been removed. Please use the concrete types.
- The `exported.Proof` interface has been removed. Please use the `MerkleProof` concrete type.
- The functions `GetState()`, `GetOrdering()`, `GetCounterparty()`, `GetConnectionHops()`, `GetVersion()` of the `Channel` type have been removed.
- The functions `GetPortID()`, `GetChannelID()` of the `CounterpartyChannel` type have been removed.
- The functions `GetClientID()`, `GetState()`, `GetCounterparty()`, `GetVersions()`, and `GetDelayPeriod` of the `Connection` type have been removed. 
- The functions `GetClientID()`, `GetConnectionID()`, and `GetPrefix()` of the `CounterpartyConnection` type have been removed. 
- The utility function `QueryLatestConsensusState` of `04-channel` CLI has been removed.
- `UnmarshalPacketData` now takes in the context, portID, and channelID. This allows the packet data to be unmarshaled based on the channel version.
- `Router` reference has been removed from IBC core keeper: [#6138](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/6138). Please use `PortKeeper.Router` instead.
- The function `CreateLocalhostClient` has been removed. The localhost client is now stateless. 
- The function `NewClientProposalHandler` has been removed. [#6777](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/6777).

### 02-client

- The `QueryVerifyMembershipRequest` protobuf message has been modified to include `commitment.v2.MerklePath`. The deprecated `commitment.v1.MerklePath` field has been `reserved`. [See 23-commitment](#23-commitment)

### 23-commitment

- The `MerklePath` type has been deprecated and a new `commitment.v2.MerklePath` type has been introduced (ref: [#6644](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/6644)). The new `commitment.v2.MerklePath` contains `repeated bytes` in favour of `repeated string`. This allows users to prove values stored under keys which contain non-utf8 encoded symbols. As a result, changes have been made to the 02-client `Query` service and 08-wasm contract API messages for JSON blobs. See [02-client](#02-client) and [08-wasm](#08-wasm), respectively.

### IBC testing package

- The `mock.PV` type has been removed in favour of [`cmttypes.MockPV`](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/blob/v0.38.5/types/priv_validator.go#L50) ([#5709](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/5709)).
- Functions `ConstructUpdateTMClientHeader` and `ConstructUpdateTMClientHeaderWithTrustedHeight` of `TestChain` type have been replaced with `IBCClientHeader`. This function will construct a `07-tendermint` header to update the light client on the counterparty chain. The trusted height must be passed in as a non-zero height.
- `GetValsAtHeight` has been renamed to `GetTrustedValidators`
- `AssertEventsLegacy` function of `ibctesting` package (alias for `"github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/v9/testing"`)  has been removed and `AssertEvents` function should be used instead (ref: [#6070](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/6070)).

```diff
// testing/events.go
- func AssertEventsLegacy(
-   suite *testifysuite.Suite,
-   expected EventsMap,
-   actual []abci.Event,
- )

func AssertEvents(
  suite *testifysuite.Suite,
  expected []abci.Event,
  actual []abci.Event,
)
```

#### API deprecation notice

The testing package functions `coordinator.Setup`, `coordinator.SetupClients`, `coordinator.SetupConnections`, `coordinator.CreateConnections`, and `coordinator.CreateChannels` have been deprecated and will be removed in v10.
Please use the new functions `path.Setup`, `path.SetupClients`, `path.SetupConnections`, `path.CreateConnections`, `path.CreateChannels`.

## Relayers

- Renaming of event attribute keys in [#5603](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/5603).
- Removal of duplicate non-hexlified event attributes in [#6023](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/pull/6023).

## IBC Light Clients

### API removals

The `ExportMetadata` interface function has been removed from the `ClientState` interface. Core IBC will export all key/value's within the 02-client store.  

The `ZeroCustomFields` interface function has been removed from the `ClientState` interface.

The following functions have also been removed from the `ClientState` interface: `Initialize`, `Status`, `GetLatestHeight`, `GetTimestampAtHeight`, `VerifyClientMessage`, `VerifyMembership`, `VerifyNonMembership`, `CheckForMisbehaviour`, `UpdateState`, `UpdateStateOnMisbehaviour`,  `CheckSubstituteAndUpdateState` and `VerifyUpgradeAndUpdateState`. ibc-go v9 decouples routing at the `02-client` layer from the light clients' encoding structure (i.e. every light client implementation of the `ClientState` interface is not used anymore to route the requests to the right light client at the `02-client` layer, instead a *light client module* is registered for every light client type and `02-client` routes the requests to the right light client module based on the client ID). Light client developers must implement the newly introduced `LightClientModule` interface and are encouraged to move the logic implemented in the functions of their light client's implementation of the `ClientState` interface to the equivalent function in the `LightClientModule` interface. The table below shows the equivalence between the `ClientState` interface functions that have been removed and the functions in the `LightClientModule` interface:

|`ClientState` interface|`LightClientModule` interface|
|-----------------------|-----------------------------|
|`Initialize`                   |`Initialize`                 |
|`Status`                       |`Status`                     |
|`GetLatestHeight`              |`LatestHeight`               |
|`GetTimestampAtHeight`         |`TimestampAtHeight`          |
|`VerifyClientMessage`          |`VerifyClientMessage`        |
|`VerifyMembership`             |`VerifyMembership`           |
|`VerifyNonMembership`          |`VerifyNonMembership`        |
|`CheckForMisbehaviour`         |`CheckForMisbehaviour`       |
|`UpdateState`                  |`UpdateState`                |
|`UpdateStateOnMisbehaviour`    |`UpdateStateOnMisbehaviour`  |
|`CheckSubstituteAndUpdateState`|`RecoverClient`              |
|`VerifyUpgradeAndUpdateState`  |`VerifyUpgradeAndUpdateState`|
|`ExportMetadata`               |                             |
|`ZeroCustomFields`             |                             |

Please check also the [Light client developer guide](../03-light-clients/01-developer-guide/01-overview.md) for more information. The light client module implementation for `07-tendermint` may also be useful as reference.

### 06-solomachine

The `Initialize`, `Status`, `GetTimestampAtHeight` and `UpdateStateOnMisbehaviour` functions in `ClientState` have been removed and all their logic has been moved to functions of the `LightClientModule`.

### 07-tendermint

The `IterateConsensusMetadata` function has been removed.

### 08-wasm

- The `VerifyMembershipMsg` and `VerifyNonMembershipMsg` payloads for `SudoMsg` have been extended to include a new field, `MerklePath`. The existing `Path` field will remain the same. The new `MerklePath` field is used if and only if the provided key path contains non-utf8 encoded symbols, and as a result will encode the JSON field `merkle_path` as a base64 encoded bytestring. See [23-commitment](#23-commitment).
- The `ExportMetadataMsg` struct has been removed and is no longer required for contracts to implement. Core IBC will handle exporting all key/value's written to the store by a light client contract.
- The `ZeroCustomFields` interface function has been removed from the `ClientState` interface. Core IBC only used this function to set tendermint client states when scheduling an IBC software upgrade. The interface function has been replaced by a type assertion.  

### 09-localhost

The `09-localhost` light client has been made stateless and will no longer update the client on every block. The `ClientState` is constructed on demand when required.
The `ClientState` itself is therefore no longer provable direcly with `VerifyMembership` or `VerifyNonMembership`.

Previously stored client state data is pruned automatically on IBC module store migration from `ConsensusVersion` 6 to 7.
